```
                                       .* ~                             
                                      § ~.                              
                                     .                                  
                                _____U____       cR O)                  
                               /\ ^  ^  ^ \     C~*)')D       ..        
                         _    /  \  ^  ^   \   (v('Iu/o)    o°O o)      
                         0   /    \_________\    \ I u       \I/o       
             I==I==I==I  |   | [] |  o   o |      II          I/        
~ anmd ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~~
```

=> /index.gmi home
=> /journal.gmi journal
=> /about.gmi about
=> /whoami.gmi whoami

# about

## why this website?
To talk about topics that are of importance to me. To reflect on us as a species in relation to the bigger picture.

I'm not particularily social. Nor do I think that I have unique bits of wisdom to offer.

But I do feel that I should, _need_ to add my voice to some discussions.

Here I don't try to sell things. I won't preach or attempt to convince, but share my views and opinions.

## tech
This website is one hundred percent static and hand-crafted. There are no cookies to consent to, no tracking, no ads. Not even JavaScript.

So here it is just you, me, and our thoughts. You can feel safe here. Grab a tea, get comfy and stay a while.

## Laniakea?
> Laniakea means ‘immeasurable heaven’ in Hawaiian

Laniakea is the name of "our" galaxy supercluster. In it, eventually, you will find our planet, earth.

Make no mistake, Laniakea is unfathomably vast. There is _a lot_ of space for all sorts of things.

Some orientation, then:
* You're in some sort of settlement, which is in a country, which is on a continent. On earth. So far so good.
* Zooming out: Earth is the third planet from the sun, the star in our solar system.
* Zooming out: The solar system is one of between 100 and 400 _billion_ similar solar systems in our galaxy, the Milky Way.
* Zooming out: The Milky Way galaxy isn't alone. Together with the Andromeda galaxy and both their respective smaller satellite galaxies it does form the Local Group.
* Zooming out: The Local Group then joins around 100 other groups to form the Virgo Supercluster.
* Zooming out: Lastly, our galaxy and all others in the Local Group join roughly 100,000 others to form the Laniakea supercluster.

As I said, Laniakea is a vast place.

