```
                                       .* ~                             
                                      § ~.                              
                                     .                                  
                                _____U____       cR O)                  
                               /\ ^  ^  ^ \     C~*)')D       ..        
                         _    /  \  ^  ^   \   (v('Iu/o)    o°O o)      
                         0   /    \_________\    \ I u       \I/o       
             I==I==I==I  |   | [] |  o   o |      II          I/        
~ anmd ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~~
```

=> /index.gmi home
=> /journal.gmi journal
=> /about.gmi about
=> /whoami.gmi whoami

# Laniakea

## 2023-01-31
### ChatGPT

Me and my wife have done some experiments with ChatGPT recently. 

=> https://chat.openai.com/chat OpenAI ChatGPT

It is quite fascinating once you understand how to work with it. It of course has no comprehension of what it is generating, it doesn't "understand" and can easily be tricked:

> Us: Lisas mother has three children. Two of the children are Paul and Peter. What is the name of the third child?
> ChatGPT: It is not specified what is the name of the third child.

It is a statistics engine, after all. Thank god.

But it is good in exploring factual situations, even if they're hypothetical.

At one point we were having a conversation with ChatGPT on potentially life bearing moons of Jupiter ("Europa") and quizzing the bot on specifics of the subsurface ocean, the thickness of the ice on the surface, why there is liquid water to begin with, ... Finally we tried to get it to come up with specifics of a human habitat in that subsurface ocean. It didn't really get into the details of what is required but I'm quite sure better questioning from our end would have improved the results.

We had it explain Dark Matter and Dark Energy in layman's terms and as far as I can tell (I'm a space nerd but not an astrophysicist) it got it right.

We had it write a poem about a stuffed toy. It also wrote a comparative analysis between MacBeth and Othello for us. According to my wife, an english teacher, the bot did alright. Alright in the sense that it was factually sound and would have passed off as homework from a child. Now we're both secretly waiting until one of her school kids hand in an essay written by ChatGPT which will be factually wrong. It's a matter of time, for sure.

The other day I used it to write AWK scripts. This was tricky but ultimately successful. I do have a decent understanding of programming in all sorts of languages but I don't know AWK at all so I couldn't give ChatGPT a headstart. Instead I started with a simple task and gradually asked the bot to improve the code - much the same process as I would follow if I was writing the code myself, I _love_ iterative design / fail-fast.

Initially the bot would generate code that would throw syntax errors. When pointed out, the bot excused itself (sic!) and corrected the code. At one point I asked it to write a recursion. It didn't really do that but changed the code to run the same code twice. When pointed out that this wouldn't "infinitely" recurse, again, the bot excused itself (sic!) and implemented a recursive function.

Ultimatelly I was able to have the bot iterate the code into what I needed.

On another occasion I used ChatGPT to learn more about IPTABLES and how to write firewall directives for my selfhosted setup. The bot never really wrote the correct directives but quizzing it about what this or that part of a rule did, it consistently gave helpful replies and I was able to write the rules myself.

So yeah... ChatGPT is good. I'm quite sure I'll use it as a learning tool from now on.

## 2023-01-26
### The flu

Oh the joys. I felt the first symptoms of coming down with something on Monday. Somehow I coughed and struggled through a four hour workshop that had already been postponed a few times and pretty much collapsed into bed immediately after dinner. You know, man-flu.

Seriously though, this is the third time in a couple of months that I have fallen sick. I do think that generally speaking I do take care of myself, but the situation at work is getting to me more and more. I neglected the first two outbreaks and went back to work relatively fast. This time hopefully I'm smart enough to take some rest.

So far I'm proud of myself. I sleep _a lot_.

I've spent my waking hours reading "The Ecotechnic Future" by John Michael Greer. Good read, but depressing. Which is why it is important I read it. The book discusses visions for how our industrial civilization will change in a world after peak-oil. It is scary, but it also highlights very well how the current system is unsustainable.

Is anyone else also tired of the common misuse of this word, "sustainable"? Well there is no helping it, actual sustainability is non-negotiable.

I'll bring the book up again in a later post. Today I'm about a third through and it feels premature to talk about it.

What else have I been up to... mostly bashing my head against IPTABLES. :(

In my selfhosting setup I'm providing a few apps to myself and my wife: A wiki, a taskboard, RSS reader, data synchronization, ad-blocker. They're all accessible from within our appartment. But I want to be able to access them from anywhere, but without exposing them to the internet.

I'm already hosting a VPN network for us which is working well. So the idea is to provide the selfhosted apps on the VPN by means of clever routing and a reverse proxy.

The task for now is to forward DNS requests to our adblocker: From the wireguard VPN network to the adguard instance which shares a docker network with the wireguard client on our gateway machine that provides the single access point from the outside world into our LAN.

```
    ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓          ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
    ┃ LAN client          ┃          ┃ mobile client      ┃
    ┃ eth0: 192.168.0.238 ┃          ┃ eth0: *            ┃
    ┃ wg0 : 10.42.78.100  ┠┄┄┄╮  ╭┄┄┄┨ wg0 : 10.42.78.150 ┃
    ┃ DNS : 10.42.78.200  ┃   ┊  ┊   ┃ DNS : 10.42.78.200 ┃
    ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛   ┊  ┊   ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛
                              ┊  ┊
                  ┏━━━━━━━━━━━┷━━┷━━━━━━━━━┓
                  ┃ VPS / wireguard server ┃
                  ┃ eth0: (VPS)            ┃
                  ┃ wg0 : 10.42.78.1       ┃
                  ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┯━━━━━━━━━┛
                                 ┊
    ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓  ┊
    ┃ machine A               ┃  ┊
    ┃ eth0: 192.168.0.45      ┃  ┊
    ┃ wg0 : -                 ┃  ┊
    ┃ dn-wg: 172.20.0.0/24    ┃  ┊
    ┃                         ┃  ┊
    ┃ ┌───────────────────┐   ┃  ┊
    ┃ │ docker wireguard  │   ┃  ┊
    ┃ │ wg0: 10.42.78.200 ├┄┄┄╂┄┄╯
    ┃ │ eth0: 172.20.0.2  ├┄╮ ┃
    ┃ └───────────────────┘ ┊ ┃
    ┃                       ┊ ┃
    ┃ ┌───────────────────┐ ┊ ┃
    ┃ │ docker adguard    │ ┊ ┃
    ┃ │ eth0: 172.20.0.3  ├┄╯ ┃
    ┃ └───────────────────┘   ┃
    ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛
```

=> https://www.utf8-chartable.de/unicode-utf8-table.pl?start=9472 by the way, UTF-8 border characters are awesome

But man, IPTABLES are hard. I know only very little about networking itself so writing these rules is more guesswork than anything else. I've been reading loads of documentation and asked for help on reddit but so far I'm not really making progress. It is frustrating. I've been at this for a couple of weeks now. Granted, usually I have an hour of consecutive time and a complex subject like this isn't really suitable for that. Now that I'm down with the flu I do have more time but my brain is in power saving mode so it's not any easier.

## 2023-01-21
### Spot the mistake

Simplicity can mean different things to different people. I particularily like this one:

> A simple solution has elegance. It is the result of exacting effort to understand the real problem and is recognized by its compelling sense of rightness.
>
> Charles H. More, Inventor of Forth

A simple tool allows us to achieve mastery with it, to fully understand its capabilities and its limitations. Fully understanding the limitations of a tool sparks creativity.

If you're curious what that could mean, consider guitarists. Six strings and a couple of frets is all their tool, the guitar, has. Yet there is a vast variety of guitar music in the world.

A digital example is old 8-bit computer graphics and how far Masters of the art pushed ith troughout the years.

My own CLI todo application falls well within what I consider a simple tool. It does what I need it to do, and no more. 50 lines of shell script is all that was required for it. With some calls to _man_ I will always be able to understand every aspect of it and change it if needed.

In the same vain, I can relate to the appeal of websites driven by Markdown. Where the content is stored in human readable text files rather than SQL databases, rendering into modern websites on the fly with the help of a tool chain. In fact, when I started to think of creating Laniakea, I did some research into static site generators, and eventually decided _fuck it_, I'll write everything by hand.

Why is that? I couldn't find a tool chain that was simple and that did Markdown to HTML conversion in a way that I liked. I'm sure there is something out there and I simply didn't look hard enough.

But what I found was a very different understanding of 'simplicity'. Take Jekyll for example. It is the site generator used by Github Pages but you can use it yourself, there even is a docker image. I do like docker images. Unfortunatelly the default docker image is over 300 megabyte. Excuse me?! I'm sure Jekyll can do amazing things while converting Markdown to HTML, but 300 MB is... a lot. There is complexity under the hood that no average being will ever grasp.

On the other end of the spectrum we find a hand-crafted docker image of busybox httpd that is smaller than 100 _kilobyte_. Now, that is simple.

I don't mean to bash on Jekyll. It merely represents one end of a very broad spectrum. Other static site generators come in much slimer: Grav for example is below 50 MB and Jekyll's own 'minimal' docker image is around 70 MB. Still not exactly featherweights though.

If I were to replace a database-driven website such as Wordpress with one based on Markdown, then it isn't because I want to get rid of the database. I understand databases, I know how to handle them, how to do backups. If I were to do this, it would be to get rid of complexity. Exchanging one complex tool with another one isn't doing anything.

Of course, this is me. If you do not understand databases and instead are a master with Node.js, your perspective might well be a very different one.

### links

=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMcJ1Jvtef0 8-bit graphics mastery
=> https://github.com/MrOnak/cli_todo my simple todo appeal
=> https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll Jekyll static site generator
=> https://lipanski.com/posts/smallest-docker-image-static-website micro httpd docker image

## 2023-01-15
### Musings about simplicity

In summer last year I did realize how very complex and _off_ my life had become. My password manager listed several _hundred_ entries. I used to have over a dozen gmail accounts. Multiple redundant accounts for services I rarely used. People linked on social media that I couldn't remember how I met them and why we were linked.

I spent hours daily mindlessly looking at Instagram posts and websites, deleting countless emails selling this or informing me about that, on one site or another. For what?

What I didn't spend time on anymore were real people or any real-life activity for that matter. The COVID-19 pandemic certainly didn't help, but I was never very social.

Yet, there was and still is that dream of turning my, our, life around. Reconnect with reality and other human beings. We want to simplify our lives, focus more on people and things that matter. Develop skills. Move to a smaller place, out of the city and into a more rural setup. Buy less, make more. Be less dependent on the internet and big tech. Walk the road toward being more eco-friendly. Reduce our amount of waste, electricity- and water consumption. 

Some tiny steps have been made since then. I realized that I need to clean up my digital life first, to make mental room for any change. I've spend decades creating this current state. It will take some time to untangle, reduce, simplify, identify and keep only those parts that are worth keeping.

So probably, on the outside not much has changed yet. But I have...

* ...stopped gaming, with the exception of one mobile game.
* ...delved into the rabbit hole of self hosting. Move stuff out of the cloud and back onto a machine that I own, administer and mold to my needs. This journey has just begun, there is still plenty to clean up, downgrade, simplify. Currently this has made my life more complex. I'm learning, trying, changing things. This complexity is temporary.
* ...deleted a dozen or so email accounts
* ...unsubscribed from Twitter and every Facebook / Meta platform and service that I used. By doing so I have temporarily lost a few relevant people but I have gained time and mental space. I will reconnect.
* ...gotten off a few online services and wrote a few tools on my own.
* ...collaborated in tiny capacity with a few open source projects
* ...moved largely to Raspberry Pis and text-based applications as my computing platform. My main computer including 2 monitors, mouse, keyboard and desk light now consumes around 50 W compared to previously needing 150 W for the desktop compter alone.

Regarding non-virtual / digital things: I've gotten rid off an aquarium that I had gotten during the onset of COVID. I've started to learn how to use the Soroban for calculus and I plan to build my own. I had tried to grow some herbs, chilis and paprikas on the balcony. That was largely unsuccessful, I need to learn how to work with the seasons better and be more conscious to cook with ingredients in mind that are currently available.

I've stopped spending money on my Eurorack synthesizer and largely stopped reading music gear websites, or viewing / watching / following music influencers. I don't need more music gear, time to get off that seductive drip system.

I've largely stopped buying cheap. I value well-crafted, durable things more.

I did start to learn aquarell painting and did enjoy it. Recently I have stopped again. This is something to pick up once more in 2023

I did read one book ("Earth abides" by George R. Steward) last year. Book as in paper.

We build a small but nice vinyl collection of actually good music. Unsubscribed Spotify and Amazon Music in return.

My wife has filled one leather bound book with all contact information of all relevant people. She also wrote a whole bunch of christmas cards and stocked up on letter paper.

I've started to invest our money more and hopefully smarter.

My mindset has begun to change from wanting the latest shiney gadget, toward viewing simplicity as superior. This is the way forward. But the road is rough.
 
### links

=> https://arstechnica.com/science/2023/01/i-disconnected-from-the-electric-grid-for-8-months-in-manhattan/ Inspiring article on living off-the-grid - in Manhattan
=> https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosting /r/selfhosting
=> https://github.com/MrOnak/ my github. tools I wrote
=> https://github.com/MrOnak/madness madness markdown server (HTTP)
=> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soroban Japanese abacus, the Soroban

